•	What is Netwalker Ransomware?

Netwalker ransomware is a Window's specific ransomware that encrypts and exfiltrates all of the data it beaches. After a successful attack, victims are presented with 
a ransom note demanding a bitcoin payment in exchange for a full decryption of the compromised data.

The secret behind Netwalker's ransom payout success lies in their double-extortion tactic, a strategy also used by the notorious ransomware gang Maze. A sample of the 
breached sensitive data is instantly published on the dark web as proof of the breach. Victims are presented with this evidence and given an ultimatum to pay the 
ransom price to avoid further publishing on the criminal infested network.

The cybercriminals group behind the Netwalker ransomware is known as Circus Spider.

•	How Did Netwalker Ransomware Become Popular?

In March 2020, Netwalker ransomware shifted to a Ransomware-as-a-Service model (RaaS). This is an adaptation of the Software-as-a-Service model. Criminal affiliates 
sign up to launch cyberattacks with the ransomware.SaaS products empower users to execute complex processes, in just about any industry, without coding expertise. 
LIkewise, RaaS solutions empower even the most novel hackers to execute highly sophisticated ransomware attacks.

Since shifting to an RaaS model, Netwalker expanded its global reach in a very short period of time. Criminal affiliates receive an extravagant percentage of each 
ransom payment, and with an unlimited earning potential, they're motivated to rapidly spread the ransomware far and wide. But multiplying RaaS affiliates is not the 
only key to achieving a heinous global reputation. Even though RaaS solutions don't require expert hackers, it does help to be one.

Cybersecurity defenses now consist of complex firewall layers and secure VPNs. To infiltrate these barriers, you cannot solely rely on the RaaS solution. You need 
additional hacking expertise to tailor breaching solutions for each unique breaching problem. With such an expert network, each affiliate's chances of penetration will be
high, and with the resulting successful breach streak, the utilized RaaS tool will build upon its rapidly developing reputation.

To recruit these expert affiliates, Circus Spider posted invitations to their affiliate program, alongside a list of essential criteria, in Russian criminal forums on 
the dark web.Netwalker ransomware affiliates need to:

(a)Be fluent Russian-speaking and Russian-typing hackers
(b)Have extensive ransomware attack experience
(c)Have extensive network penetration experience
(d)Have an extensive list of high profile targets
(e)Be capable of providing evidence of all their experience.

In a leaked recruitment post, it was discovered that Circus Spider broaden their focus to internet-exposed Remote Desktop Protocols (RDPs) rather than just the 
ubiquitous spear-phishing attack vector.

To make their offer tantalising, Circus Spider published a list of benefits for successful candidates including:

(a)Unlimited access to autocrypt.exe after the first payout of at least 10 BTK
(b)Access to a PowerShell (a method of distributing ransomware via an email attachment) after the first payout of at least 10 BTK
(c)Opportunity to personally work for the ransomware gang on a contractual basis
(d)Netwalker ransomware affiliates are well looked after. Compared to other RaaS solutions, Netwalker is on the generous end of the spectrum, paying their affiliates 
up to 80% of each successful ransom payment.

With their army of seasoned threat actors at the ready, Netwalker (also known as mailto) launched their first wave of RaaS attacks in March 2020.The cybercrime network
worked relentlessly, tipping over business after business, taking advantage of global coronavirus distractions.

•	Netwalker Target:

Netwalker attackers even targeted the healthcare sector, tricking staff into injecting the Malware through Covid-themed phishing emails. These attacks were severe 
enough to prompt a flash alert by the FBI in July 2020.

Some of Netwalker's notable victims included:

(a)The Crozer-Keystone Health System
(b)Australian transport company Toll Group
(c)California University's Covid research sector
(d)The Austrian city of Weiz
(e)K-Electric, Pakistan's largest private power utility.
(f)Argentina's official immigration agency

Besides the health sector, the following industries are also targeted by Netwalker:

(a)Business management solutions
(b)Customer experience management
(c)Manufacturing
(d)Education and battery management

Netwalker spread their net over a digital world that overlooked its security posture amid the pandemic chaos, claiming victims over a majority of the globe in a few 
short months.

•	How Does Netwalker Ransomware Work?

Netwalker ransomware is most commonly introduced into an ecosystem via phishing emails. These emails appear to come from legitimate sources, so recipients are tricked 
into click on links and downloading attachments.

In their machiavellian Covid-themes phishing emails, Netwalker attached a visual basic script titled CORONAVIRUS_COVID-19.vbs. When these phishing email scripts are 
activated, the executable saved in the victim's temp folder and the attack is initiated.

Victims are unaware of anything unusual happening as the Netwalker ransomware infects their systems. This is because the malware operates clandestinity under the guide
of legitimate Microsoft processes. This is achieved through a technique known as 'process harrowing', where code from Microsoft's executable is replaced with 
Netwalker's malicious code to access

Netwalker then initiates a mass exfiltration of all the breached sensitive data, The stolen data is also heavily encrypted to prevent victims from getting access to 
the compromised data.Only when the attack is complete does the victim notice that their system has been compromised. A ransom note left by attackers in a TXT file 
confirms any suspicions.

After the ransom note has been deployed, a subset of the exfiltrated data is published on the dark web and shown to the victim as proof of the successful breach. This 
is when the clock starts ticking and victims are pressured to make the ransom payment to avoid further sensitive data being published on the dark web.Victims are 
instructed to submit their ransom payment via an anonymous communication network, through a TOR browser portal.Victims are provided with a decryption tool for their 
specific Netwalker variant when a ransom payment is made.

•	Mitigation procedures recommended to defend your business from Netwalker Ransomware are:

A.	Backup all of your data on external hard drives
B.	Enforce two-factor authentication
C.	Ensure all software patches are up to date
D.	Regularly update endpoint passwords
E.	Monitor your security posture
F.	Implement a third-party risk management solution

•	Conclusion :

-> It is to be noted that the ransomware groups are becoming increasingly professionalized, outsourcing code development, infrastructure and C2 operations, as well as 
operating RaaS business models. Many of them are organized enough to respond to media inquiries and operate victim hotlines.

-> As these threat actors continue to evolve, the organizations are required to follow the security best practices to safeguard their critical business data and 
protect against ransomware attack. It is recommended to have an incident response plan kept in place in case of any such attacks.





